Hey everyone! Welcome to our presentation. ccna Title Slide: Introduction to Java ... Moving on to our next point. Overview Title Slide: Introduction to Java Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems (now owned by Oracle Corporation) in the mid-1990s. Overview of Java Object-Oriented Programming Language: Java uses concepts such as classes, objects, inheritance, polymorphism, and encapsulation to create programs. you know Platform Independent: Written in Java, applications can run on any device that has a Java Virtual Machine (JVM), eliminating the need for platform-specific code. Simple: With easy syntax similar to C++ and English-like semantics, Java is relatively simple for beginners. Key Benefits of Using Java: 1... High performance and scalability 2... Enhanced security and stability 3... Large community support and numerous resources 4... Wide range of applications (web, mobile, desktop, games) 5... Platform independence (write once, run anywhere) Java History Developed by James Gosling and his team at Sun Microsystems in 1991. Originally called "Oak", renamed to Java in 1995. Initial release: Java 1.0 (December 1996) Major releases: Java 2 (2000), Java SE 6 (2006), Java SE 7 (2011), Java SE 8 (2014), Java SE 9, Java SE 10, and latest Java 13 (2019) Maintained and further developed by Oracle Corporation since 2010. Java Components Core Java: Basic Java programming language for building applications, applets, and libraries. Java Platform Standard Edition (SE): A set of APIs that provide developers with prewritten code to build desktop, web, and enterprise applications. Java Platform Micro Edition (ME) / JavaFX: Designed for small devices such as mobile phones and PDAs... Now known as JavaFX, it is a complete client solution you know for building and delivering rich Internet applications. Java Development Tools ... Moving on to our next point. Overview Integrated Development Environments (IDEs): Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans Compilers: javac (command line), Eclipse Java Compiler (EJC), and others Java Virtual Machine (JVM): Runs Java bytecode on various platforms. Application Servers: Tomcat, GlassFish, WildFly, JBoss Example Code: Hello World in Java `java public class HelloWorld { public static void main(String[] args) { System.out.println("Hello, World!"); Summary Java you know is a popular, high-level object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems and now maintained by Oracle Corporation. It offers simplicity, platform independence, large community support, and scalability across various applications. Key components include Core Java, Java Platform Standard Edition (SE), and Java Platform Micro Edition (ME)/JavaFX, with a variety of development tools available for building Java projects. ... And that wraps up our presentation. Thanks for watching!