Hey everyone! Welcome to our presentation. sample Java: A Detailed Overview ... Moving on to our next point. Java: A Detailed Overview ... Moving on to our next point. Introduction to Java Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems (now owned by Oracle) in 1995. It's designed for building robust and secure applications with a "write once, run anywhere" philosophy Java supports platform independence through the use of bytecode ... Moving on to our next point. Key Features of Java Simple Uses English keywords for objects, classes, and methods, making it easy to understand Removes complexities by abstracting low-level details from the developer Object-Oriented Provides a clean and modular approach to software development Enables code reusability through inheritance, polymorphism, and encapsulation Robust & Secure Employs automatic memory management (garbage collection) Supports exception handling for error detection and recovery Provides a secure environment with the Java Security Manager ... Moving on to our next point. Bytecode and JVM Java code is compiled to bytecode, which can run on any device with a Java Virtual Machine (JVM). The JVM translates bytecode into machine language that the host computer can understand This enables platform independence as the same bytecode can run on different operating systems ... Moving on to our next point. Examples of Java Applications Android Apps Java is widely used for developing mobile applications, particularly in the Android ecosystem. public class MainActivity extends Activity { Web Applications (JavaServer Faces, Spring Framework) Java can be used to build dynamic web pages by server-side Java technologies like JSF and Spring Framework. @ManagedBean(name = "welcome") public class Welcome { ... Moving on to our next point. Java Libraries & Frameworks Java Standard Library (JSL) Provides core functionalities like I/O operations, collections, and utilities. Apache Struts A popular open-source framework used for creating web applications with a focus on security and maintainability. ... Moving on to our next point. Conclusion Java's platform independence, simplicity, and rich set of libraries and frameworks make it an ideal choice for developing robust, secure, and versatile software solutions... Its wide adoption in industries such as finance, e-commerce, and... ... And that wraps up our presentation. Thanks for watching!